.TH APPLICATION 1 "16th April 2015" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
APPLICATION \- build PUPS application files from skeleton application files.
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B application 
.I skelpapp_make_filename
.I skelpapp_filename
[>2 <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I application(1)
is used to build a PUPS
.I application framework
from a set of generic
.I application skeleton files.
If no application skeleton files are specified on the command line, the
the names specified in the environmental variables,
.B PUPS_SKELPAPP
and
.B PUPS_MAKE_SKELPAPP
are used for the skeleton application and its makefile respectively. If these environmental
variables do not exist, defaults (skelpapp.c and Make_skelpapp.in) assumed to be in the current
directory are used.
.br
This command is interactive. The user is prompted to type in the information which is required
to generate the application files (application name, author, author institution, date, purpose
of application, author email) from the skeleton files.
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH OPTIONS
.B -usage
display help and copyright information and usage for the
.I application(1)
filter.
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error (i.e. SIGTERM, SIGQUIT caught).
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B  PUPS_SKELPAPP
name of PUPS skeleton application file.
.br
.B PUPS_MAKE_SKELPAPP
name of PUPS skeleton makefile.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br
