.TH APPGEN 1 "22 February 2009" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
APPGEN \- build PUPS appgen files from skeleton application files.
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B appgen 
[
.B -usage
|
.B -help
] |
.I skelpapp_make_filename
.I skelpapp_filename
>& <log file>
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I appgen(1)
is used to build a PUPS
.I application framework
from a set of generic
.I application skeleton files.
If no application skeleton files are specified on the command line, the
the names specified in the environmental variables,
.B PUPS_SKELPAPP
and
.B PUPS_MAKE_SKELPAPP
are used for the skeleton application file and its corresponding makefile respectively. If these environmental
variables do not exist, defaults (skelpapp.c and Make_skelpapp.in) assumed to be in the current
directory are used.
.br
This command is interactive. The user is prompted to type in the information which is required
to generate the application files (application name, author, author institution, date, purpose
of application, author email) from the skeleton files.  With care
this command inter-operates with the other PUPS source framework generators,
.I libgen(1)
and
.I dllgen(1).
.br
The default path to the directory containing the skeleton application files, the
.B P3 Project Directory
is a compile time option. If
.I pups(7)
is installed as
.B root
it defaults to
.B /p3
otherwise it defaults to
.B ~/p3
.br

.SH OPTIONS
.B -usage
|
.B -help
display help and copyright information and usage for the
.I appgen(1)
filter.
.B  skelpapp_filename
specifies the name of the skeleton application file. Defaults to
.I skelpapp.c
assumed to be in the current directory.
.br
.B  skelpapp_make_filename
specifies the corresponding
.I PUPS Make template
file. Defaults to
.I Make_skelpapp.in
assumed to be in the current directory.
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B  PUPS_SKELPAPP
.I file
is name of PUPS skeleton appgen
.I file.
.br
.B PUPS_MAKE_SKELPAPP
.I file
name of PUPS skeleton make
.I file.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
libgen(1), dllgen(1), sed(1)
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br
