.TH ASK 1 "27th March 2020" "PUPSP3 Scripts" "PUPSP3 Scripts"

.SH NAME
ASK \- prompt for text string 
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ask 
.B [-usage | -help]
|
.B [-clear]
.I [payload command]
.I [prompt string] 
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ask(1)
prompts for a text string. If a user prompt
.I prompt_string
is supplied,
.I ask(1)
will use it as a prompt. Otherwise the (default) prompt
.B ask>
will be used. The text string is read from
.B standard input.
In addition, a
.B payload command
may also be specified. This command runs for the lifetime of the current invocation
of
.I ask(1)
and is used to circumvent signal scheduling problems in shellscripts which call
.I ask(1)
for input.
If a command is prefixed with '!' it is passed to the shell via the
.I system(3)
command processor.
.I ask(1)
keeps a history of the text-strings entered using the Gnu
.I readline(3)
library.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.B -usage | -help
display help and copyright information for the
.I ask(1)
filter.
.br

.B -clear
tells
.I ask(1)
to clear text-string history.
.br

.B prompt
is the prompt which
.I ask(1)
displays. Defaults to
.B ask>
.br

.B payload
specified a
.I payload command
(which may be a shell/perl/TCL script) which runs for the lifetime of the current
invocation of
.I ask(1).
.br

.SH SIGNALS
.I ask(1)
has handlers for
.B SIGHUP,
.B SIGQUIT,
.B SIGINT
and
.B SIGTERM
active when running a payload command. Otherwise signal handling is default.
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
system(3), readline(3)
