.TH BUILD_PUPSP3 1 "16th April 2015" "PUPSP3 build scripts" "PUPSP3 build scripts"

.SH NAME
BUILD_PUPSP3 \- build and install PUPSP3 environment from PUPSP3 source tree.
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B build_pupsP3 
.I [usage | --usage] 
.I [vanilla | cluster]
.I [logfile]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I build_pupsP3s(1)
is a
.I csh(1)
script which builds a PUPSP3 binary distribution in the current PUPSP3 source tree. Specifically
the scripts builds all the necessary libraries, daemons, service functions, build tools and
header files.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.B pupsuname
specifies the PUPSP3 architecture for the target. Currently this may be:
.br
.I vanilla
which specifies that a vanilla distribution (no networking, shared memory, dynamic
functions etc.) be built for a standalone system. Typically, this option is used to
build some sort of basic PUPSP3 functionality for primitive POSIX base operating systems,
for example, MINIX.
.br
.I cluster
which specifies that a fully capable distribution (including shared memory, dynamic
linking, networking and checkpointing) is built.
.br
By default (no arguments to script)
.B cluster
is assumed

.B logfile
specifies the file to which comipliation logs are to be written. Bt default the is
.I /dev/tty
(e.g. log files are written to datasink). If
.B tty
is specified, the log infromation is written to the termninal. If
.B filename
is specified, it is written to that file.
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
none.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
csh(1), buildP3(1), uninstall_pupsP3, uninstallP3(1)
.br
