.TH DLLGEN 1 "22 February 2009" "PUPSP3 build tools" "PUPSP3 build tools"

.SH NAME
DLLGEN \- build PUPS DLL source files from skeleton DLL and DLL function files.
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dllgen 
[
.B -usage
|
.B -help
] |
.I init | add
.I DLL skeleton filename
.I DLL function skeleton filename
>& <log file>
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dllgen(1)
is used to build a PUPS
.I DLL framework
from a set of generic
.I DLL  skeleton files.
If no skeleton files are specified on the command line, the
the files
.I dll_skel.c
and
.I dll_skelfunc.c
(assumed to be in the current directory) are used.
.br
This command is interactive. The user is prompted to type in the information which is required
to generate the DLL files (DLL name, author, author institution, date, purpose
of DLL, author email) from the skeleton files. The stream editor
.I sed(1)
is then called by this application to transform the generic skeleton DLL source wrappers
into application specific ones. These are written to the specified (source) DLL. With care
this command inter-operates (in
.I add
mode) with the other PUPS source framework generators,
.I libgen(1)
and
.I appgen(1).
.br
The default path to the directory containing the skeleton application files, the
.B P3 Project Directory
is a compile time option. If
.I pups(7)
is installed as
.B root
it defaults to
.B /p3
otherwise it defaults to
.B ~/p3
.br


.SH OPTIONS
.B -usage
display help and copyright information and usage for the
.I dllgen(1)
filter.
.B init
tells
.I dllgen(1)
to initialise a DLL framework using the
.I DLL skeleton filename
specified on the command line or
.I dll_skel.c
if none is specified.
.br
.B add
tells
.I dllgen(1)
to append
.I DLL function skeleton filename
to the dllrary framework or
.I DLL function skeleton filename
if none is specified.
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B  PUPS_SKELDLL
.I file
specifies the name of PUPS skeleton dllgen (init)
.I file.
.br
.B PUPS_SKELDLLFUNC
specifies the name of PUPS skeleton dllgen (function)
.I file.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
appgen(1), libgen(1), sed(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br
