.TH EMBRYO 1 "16th April 2015" "PUPSP3 service commands" "PUPSP3 service commands"
.SH NAME
.br

embryo \ PSRP embryonic process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B embryo 
[
.B -nice
.I cardinal
][
.B -argf
.I argument_file
][
.B -growth_protection
][
.B -help
][
.B -usage
][
.B -version
][
.B -slots
][
.B -slotinfo
]
[< <stdin>]
[1> <stdout>]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I embryo(1)
is an uncommited PSRP server which supports dynamic function and databag import and multithreading using
POSIX threads (see
.I pthreads(3)
). Functionality is added to the
.I embryo(1)
PSRP server using the 
.I psrp(1)
and other PSRP interaction clients.
.br

.SH OPTIONS
 
.B -help
invokes the on-line context help system. This
"man" page is displayed. The process then exits.
.br

.B -growth_protection
.I <retrys>
causes the system to retry an
.I sbrk(3)
call up to
.I retrys
times. This option permits the program to wait until the core that it requires
is available rather than simply exiting if
.I sbrk(3)
fails.
.br

.B -usage
displays shortform usage string.
.br

.B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.B -slots
displays short form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -slotinfo
displays long form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -argf
.I argument_file
tells the filter to take its command line arguments from the specified
.I argument_file.
The data format of the argument file is:
.br

#  ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

# ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [2]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br
 
.B -nice
.I cardinal
determimes the
.I niceness
at which the filter is scheduled. In keeping with all UNIX user processes, nice
must be a cardinal between 0 and 20. The default niceness for
.I embryo(1)
is 4.
.br

.SH SIGNALS
SIGUSR2 is used to support PSRP event handling
.br      

.SH PSRP INTERACTIVITY
Supports interactive querying while running using Process Status Request Protocol [PSRP], see
.I psrp(1).
.br         

.SH LIBRARIES
.I embryo(1)
uses the PUPS libraries, see
.I pups(3)
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
none.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
psrp(1), pups(3), pthreads(3)

