.TH FSW 1 "4th October 2023" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"
.SH NAME
.br

fsw \ the file system watcher - intelligent pipe o/p filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsw
[
.B -nice
.I cardinal
][
.B -argf
.I argument_file
][
.B -growth_protection
][
.B -help
][
.B -usage
][
.B -version
][
.B -slots
][
.B -slotinfo
][
.B -fs_blocks
.I block_count
][
.B -homeostatic
.I output file name
[
.B -guard
]]
[< <stdin>]
[1> <stdout>]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I fsw
provides a mechanism for watching a file system which is being written to by a
pipeline. If the file system becomes full, this is detected by
.I fsw(1)
which will then suspend the pipeline processes until space is once more
available on the target output file system. If
.I fsw(1)
is not a component in a pipeline it returns immediately if the monitored filesystem
is not full. Otherwise, it blocks until space becomes available.
.br 

 
.SH OPTIONS
 
.B -help
invokes the on-line context help system for the file system watcher. This
"man" page is displayed. The process then exits.
.br

.B -usage
displays shortform usage string.
.br

.B -growth_protection
.I <retrys>
causes the system to retry an
.I sbrk(3)
call up to
.I retrys
times. This option permits the program to wait until the core that it requires
is available rather than simply exiting if
.I sbrk(3)
fails.
.br

.B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.B -slots
displays short form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -slotinfo
displays long form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -argf
.I argument_file
tells the filter to take its command line arguments from the specified
.I argument_file.
The data format of the argument file is:
.br

#  ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

# ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [2]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br
 
.B -nice
.I cardinal
determimes the
.I niceness
at which the filter is scheduled. In keeping with all UNIX user processes, nice
must be a cardinal between 0 and 20. The default niceness for
.I fsw(1)
is 4.
.br

.B -fs_blocks
.I block_cnt
specifies the number of blocks remaining on the target filesystem below which
.I fsw(1)
will suspend its pipeline.
.br 

.B -homeostatic 
.I output file name 
tells
.I fsw(1)
to use the standard PUPS file system homeostat to protect the output file. Although
.I output file name
can be any file on the system, applications using
.I fsw(1)
expect it to be the same file that
.I fsw(1)
standard output is redirected to.
.br

.B -guard
tells
.I fsw(1)
to persist after all data is written to
.I output file name
in order to provide homeostatic protection for it. Only valid with 
.B -homeostatic
directive.
.br

.SH LIBRARIES
.I fsw(1)
uses the PUPS libraries, see
.I pups(3)
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
none.
.bt
.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd, Gosforth.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br
