.TH KEPHER 1 "24th October 2023" "PUPSP3 tools" "PUPSP3 tools"

.SH NAME
KEPHER \- remove stale temporary files from directory 
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kepher 
[
.B -usage
| 
.B -help
][
.B -verbose
][
.B -protect
][
.B -delete
][
.B -ignore
.I file extension list
][
.B -mdir
][
.I monitor directory
][
.B -mpid
.I monitor PID 
|
.I monitor process name
]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I kepher(1)
is a garbage recycler which looks in the specified
.I monitor diretory
for files of types
.B .tmp, .lid, .lock, .fifo, .ipm.tmp, .tset.tmp, .tiff.tmp, .tif.tmp, .agf
and
.B .run.
It also looks for stale PUPS/P3
.B communication channels
and
.B lockposts
see
.I pups(7).
.br
If it finds a file of one of these types it extracts the associated PID and attempts to send a
.B SIGCONT
signal to the process owning the file. If it cannot send this signal and the file is owned by the same
.B UID
as the
.I kepher(1)
process, it assumes the file to be stale (as the process which owned it has terminated) and removes it,
.br

.br
.B kepher
is named after the dung beetle
.I Kepher nigroaeneus
which removes white rhino dung from lowveld savannah in South East Africa and recycles it.
.br

.SH FILES REMOVED
.I kepher(1)
currently removes stale temporary:
.br

.br
.B tiff.tmp
.br
.B tif.tmp
.br
.B run
.br
.B agf
(pupsP3
.I command tail
file)
.br
.B tmp
.br
.B ipm.tmp
(DAISY
.I ipm
thumbnail image)
.br
.B tset.tmp
(synonym for DAISY
.I ipm
thumbnail image)
.br
.B fifo
(pups/P3
raw communicaton channel)
.br
.B lid
(pups/P3
.I lock identifier
)
.br
.B lock
(pups/P3
.I lock
)
.br
.B sheap
(pups/p3
.I shared heap
)
.br

.br
files. Others may be added in future. Stale
.I pups(7)
.B lockposts
and communication channels are also removed.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.B -usage | -help
display help and copyright information for the
.I kepher(1)
filter.
.br

.B -verbose
tells
.I kepher(1)
to send error/status information to
.I standard error
.br

.B -protect
tells
.I kepher(1)
to protect all the files in the directory nominated by
.B -mdir
which are not sub-directories. Each file in the directory
.I foo
is shadowed by an extra link (see
.I link(2)
)
.I .foo.
If
.I foo
is deleted,
.I kepher(1)
uses the shadow link to reconstitute
.I foo.
If
.I .foo
is deleted then
.I kepher(1)
will delete
.I foo.
A convenince function
.I krm(1)
is provided to perform this function.
Caveat: the file
.I kepher.run
which is used by
.I kepher(1)
to store status information cannot be deleted until the
.I kepher
process owning it exits.
.br
.B -mdir
.I monitor directory
tells
.I kepher(1)
to look for stale temporary files and PUPS/P3 files sytems objects in
.I monitor directory.
This defaults to
.B /tmp.
.br

.B -delete
tells
.I kepher(1)
to delete the
.I monitor directory
before it exits.
.br

.B -ignore
tells
.I kepher(1)
to ignore files whose file extension appear on
.I file extension list.
Typically this option is used to allow a process (or comamnd script) to directly
manage its temporary files. The list of file extensions to be ignored must be
specified in quoted from (e.g. "lock tmp") if there is more than one file extension
in the list.
.br

.B -mpid
.I monitor PID 
|
.B monitor process name
tells
.I kepher(1)
to check whether
.I monitored process
is alive and terminate if it is not. If
.I monitored process
is 0 then
.I kepher (1)
runs until it is manually terminated. Default is
.I kepher(1)
runs until manually terminated. The process may be specified by name or PID. If a
process name is specified it must be unique.
.br

.SH FILES
.I kepher.run
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
maggot(1), lysome(1), phagocyte(1), softdog(1)
.br

