.TH LOL 1 "20th December 2007" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
LOL \- test to see if the owner of a (simple link) lock, PSRP communication channel or P3
linkpost file is live 
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lol 
.B [-usage | -help]
.I lock identifer file name | PSRP communication channel name | P3 lockpost file name
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lol(1)
tests to see if a process associated with a (simple link) file lock, PSRP communication channel or
P3 lockpost file is live.  If it is
.I lol(1)
returns
.B LIVE
otherwise it returns
.B DEAD.
If the channel/lock does not exit
.B NOT_FOUND
is returned.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.B -usage | -help
display help and copyright information for the
.I lol(1)
filter.
.br

.B lock identifier file name | PSRP communication channel name | P3 lockpost file name
is the name of the lock identifier
.I lid
file which gives the PID of the process currently owning the lock, or the name of the PUPS
lockpost file, or PSRP communication channel associated with a given process.
.br

.SH RETURNS

.B LIVE
The lockfile/PSRP channel/PUPS lockpost exists and the process associated with the lock file, PUPS lockpost or
PSRP communication channel is live (running on the host running
.I lol(1)
).
.br

.B DEAD
The lockfile/PSRP channel/PUPS lockpost exists and the process associated with the lock file, PUPS lockpost or
PSRP communication channel is dead (not running on the host running
.I lol(1)
).
.br

.B NOT_FOUND
The lockfile/PSRP channel/PUPS lockpost exists and the process associated with the lock file, PUPS lockpost or
PSRP communication channel specified could not be found on the host running
.I lol(1)
).
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH BUGS
Currently Only works for lids originated by local processes.

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br
