.TH LYOSOME 1 "24th October 2023" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
LYOSOME \- PUPS lightweight file protector/destructor utility.

.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lyosome
[
.B -usage
|
.B -help
] | [
-verbose
][
.B -lifetime
.I file lifetime in seconds
][
.B -always
][
.B -daemon
.I process name
]
.I !<name of file to protect/destruct>!i
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lyosome(1)
is a lightweight utility similar in function to
.I maggot(1)
which protects a file for a specified period of time using a methodology
similar to that used by the PUPS default file protection homeostat. When this
.I lifetime
has expired,
.I lyosome(1)
deletes the file and exits. If a
.B directory
is specified
.I lyosome(1)
cannot protect it (yet) but will delete it after the specified
.I lifetime.
If the directory is deleted by another process
.I lyosome(1)
will then exit.
.br


.SH OPTIONS

.B !<file sytem object to monitor>! 
specifies the name of the file system object which is to be monitored
.br

.B -verbose
tells
.I lyosome(1)
to log error and status information to standard error.
.br

.B -daemon
.I process name
tells
.I lyosome(1)
to enter
.B daemon
mode. In daemon mode
.I lysome(1)
forks into the background using the specified process name  and runs in its own session (see
.I setsid(1)
). By default stanadard I/O is closed when running daemon mode.
.br

.B -lifetime
.I file lifetime in seconds 
specifies the lifetime of the file in seconds. Defaults to 60 seconds.
.B -always
and
.B -lifetime
are mutually exclusive options.
.br

.B -always
tells
.I lyosome(1)
to protect principal until it is terminated.
.B -always
and
.B -lifetime
are mutually exclusive options.
.br 
 
.SH SIGNALS

.B SIGINT
.B SIHUP
.B SIGQUIT
.B SIGTERM
tells
.I lyosome(1)
to terminate gracefully.
.br

.B SIGUSR1
Tells
.I lysome(1)
to print status information to standard error (if
.B -verbose
flag is specified).
.br

.B SIGUSR2
Tells
.I lysome(1)
to reset the lifetime of monitored file system object(s).
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
maggot(1), kepher(1), phagocyte(1), softdog(1), setsid(2), fork(2)
.br

