.TH MAGGOT 1 "6th October 2023" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"
.SH NAME
.br

maggot \ PSRP stale resource removal process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maggot 
[
.B -nice
.I cardinal
][
.B -argf
.I argument_file
][
.B -growth_protection
][
.B -help
][
.B -usage
][
.B -version
][
.B -slots
][
.B -slotinfo
][
.B -search
.I list of (space separated) directories to be seached
][ -parse
.I list of (space separated) file keys
][
.B -delay_period
.I minutes
][
.B -global
][
.B -parse_pid
]
]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I maggot(1)
is a garbage collection process which periodically scans the PSRP
.B patchboard
and
.B /tmp
directories for stale PSRP resources (that is FIFO standard I/O bindpost links whose
associated processes have died). When such stale resources are found they are deleted.
.I maggot(1)
can be setup to re-scan the
.B patchboard
and
.B /tmp
directories after a user specified number of minutes have elapsed. In addition the user can add
other directories to the list to be scanned either via the command table at startup, or by
intercting with
.I maggot(1)
using the
.I psrp(1)
client.
.br


.SH OPTIONS
 
.B -help
invokes the on-line context help system. This
"man" page is displayed. The process then exits.
.br

.B -growth_protection
.I <retrys>
causes the system to retry an
.I sbrk(3)
call up to
.I retrys
times. This option permits the program to wait until the core that it requires
is available rather than simply exiting if
.I sbrk(3)
fails.
.br

.B -usage
displays shortform usage string.
.br

.B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.B -slots
displays short form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -slotinfo
displays long form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -argf
.I argument_file
tells the filter to take its command line arguments from the specified
.I argument_file.
The data format of the argument file is:
.br

#  ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

# ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [2]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br
 
.B -nice
.I cardinal
determimes the
.I niceness
at which the filter is scheduled. In keeping with all UNIX user processes, nice
must be a cardinal between 0 and 20. The default niceness for
.I maggot(1)
is 4.
.br

.B -search
.I list of (space separeted) directory names
is used to specify a list of directories that will be searched in addition to
the
.B patchboard
and
.B /tmp
directories.
.br

.B -parse
.I list of (space sperated) file keys
is used to specifly a (space separated) list of file keys. Files of the form <filename>-<pid>
will be deleted if any of the key interects with <filename> and <pid> is not alive
.br

.B -delay_period
specifies the delay period (in minutes) between file system scans.
The delay period defaults to 60 minutes.
.br

.B -global
tells
.I maggot(1)
to delete stale global PUP/P3 log files in specified directories
.br

.SH PSRP INTERACTIVITY
Supports interactive querying while running using Process Status Request Protocol [PSRP], see
.I psrp(1).
.br

.B status
displays current status of
.I maggot(1)
.br

.B delay_period
.I seconds
sets scan delay period.
.br

.B add_directory
.I directory name
add specified directory to list of scanned directories.
.br

.B remove_directory
.I directory name
removes specified directory from list of scanned directories.
.br

.B add_
.I key name
add specified key to key list.
.br

.B remove_key
.I key name
Remove key from key list.
.br

.SH LIBRARIES
.I maggot(1)
uses the PUPS libraries, see
.I pups(3)
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMNENTAL VARIABLES
none.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
psrp(1), pups(3), pthreads(3)

