.TH PHAGOCYTE 1 "23rd October 2023" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
PHAGOCYTE \- PUPS lightweight process monitor/killer.

.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B phagocyte
[
.B -usage
|
.B -help
] | [
-verbose
][
.B -daemon
.I daemon process name
][
.B -monitor
.I partial process name
][
.B -period
.I target process monitoring period in seconds
][
.I -mincpu
.I minimum cpu utilisation percent
][
.B -maxcpu
.I maximum cpu usage percent
]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I phagocyte(1)
is a lightweight utility which monitors a nominated process (or group of processes) identified
by
.I partial process name.
If the percentage cpu usage of the process lies outside the range
.I minium cpu utilisation percent
to
.I maximum cpu utilisatio percent
the process is deemed to be behaving abnormally and it is terminated by being sent a
.B SIGKILL
signal. Phagocyte is inspired the biological phagocyte cell which is a type of cell with the
ability to eliminate pathogens and malfunctioning cells in a multicelluar organism.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.B -verbose
tells
.I phagocyte(1)
to log error and status information to standard error.
.br

.B -daemon
.I daemon nprocess name
tells
.I phagocyte(1)
to enter
.B daemon
mode. In daemon mode
.I phagocyte(1)
forks into the background using the specified process name  and runs in its own session (see
.I setsid(1)
). By default stanadard I/O is closed when running daemon mode.
.br

.B -period
.I file lifetime in seconds 
specifies the monitoring period in seconds after which cpu statistics for the specified
.I partial process name
are gathered via a slaved instnace of the
.I ps(1)
command.
.br 

.B -mincpu
specifies the
.I minimum cpu usage percentage
which is expected for a process which is functioing correctly. This
is a floating point value which must lie between 0.0 and 100.0
.br 
 
.B -maxcpu
specifies the
.I maximum cpu usage percentage
which is expected for a process which is functioing correctly. This
is a floating point value which must lie between
.I minimum cpu usage percentage
and 100.0
.br 
 
.SH SIGNALS
.br
.B SIGINT
.B SIHUP
.B SIGQUIT
.B SIGTERM
tells
.I phagocyte(1)
to terminate gracefully.
.br

.B SIGUSR1
Tells
.I phagocyte(1)
to print status information to standard error.
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
maggot(1), kepher(1), lyosome(1), ps(1), setsid(2), fork(2)
.br

