.TH PROTECT 1 "16th April 2015" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"
.SH NAME
.br

protect \ PSRP file/directory protection application 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B protect 
[
.B -nice
.I cardinal
][
.B -argf
.I argument_file
][
.B -growth_protection
][
.B -help
][
.B -usage
][
.B -version
][
.B -slots
][
.B -slotinfo
][
.B -principal
.I name of file to be protected
][
.B -defer
][
.B -lifetime
.I seconds
][
.B -key
.I file protection key
]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I protect(1)
sets up
.I default_fd_homeostats
(see
.I utilib(3)
) in order to protect a file or  directory specified by the user. In the case of a directory
.I all
files in the directory which match the user supplied
.B key
are protected.
.br


.SH OPTIONS
 
.B -help
invokes the on-line context help system. This
"man" page is displayed. The process then exits.
.br

.B -growth_protection
.I <retrys>
causes the system to retry an
.I sbrk(3)
call up to
.I retrys
times. This option permits the program to wait until the core that it requires
is available rather than simply exiting if
.I sbrk(3)
fails.
.br

.B -usage
displays shortform usage string.
.br

.B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.B -slots
displays short form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -slotinfo
displays long form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -argf
.I argument_file
tells the filter to take its command line arguments from the specified
.I argument_file.
The data format of the argument file is:
.br

#  ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

# ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [2]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br
 
.B -nice
.I cardinal
determimes the
.I niceness
at which the filter is scheduled. In keeping with all UNIX user processes, nice
must be a cardinal between 0 and 20. The default niceness for
.I protect(1)
is 4.
.br

.B -principal
.I object 
specifies the (file system) object  which is to be protected. If the object is a directory, all files matching
the user supplied
.B key
are protected.
.br

.B -defer
tells
.I protect(1)]
to wait for principal to be created. This option is only valid if the principal is
a
.B regular file.
.br

.B -lifetime
.I seconds
tells
.I protect(1)
how long it is to protect its principal for.
.br

.B -key
.I file protection key
specifies a key. If filesnames within a directory contain
.I file protection key
the corresponding file(s) are homeostatically protected. This option is ignored if
.I name of file
is not a directory.
.br

.SH COMPILATION OPTIONS
If
.B -DHYDRA_OF_LERNA
is specified when compiling this application the thread of execution of the
algorithm is protected using the
.I hydra of lerna
algorithm. The application parent process on startup forks a child. This child is monitored by the
parent (which reforks it if it is terminated). The child also monitors the parent process. If the
parent process is terminated the child forks it own child and takes over the job of protecting its
principal from its parent (note this is inspired by the Hydra of Lerna, a creature of Greek Legend
which had the capacity to re-grow heads which had been crushed by the hero Heracles as one of his
labours -- who says a classical education is wasted!).
.br

If
.B -DUSE_PROTECT
is specified an alternative form of homeostatic file protection algorithm (which does not
use up file descriptors) is used. This option is useful if
.I protect(1)
is being used to protect directories containing many files (and the OS limit on file descriptors
would be exhausted)
.br

.SH SIGNALS
SIGUSR2 is used to support PSRP event handling
.br      

.SH PSRP INTERACTIVITY
Supports interactive querying while running using Process Status Request Protocol [PSRP], see
.I psrp(1).
.br         

.B protect
.I object
tells
.I protect(1)
to protect (file system) object
.I object.
.br

.B unprotect
.I object
tells
.I protect(1)
to unprotect (file system) object
.I object.
.br

.B protstat
tells
.I protect(1)
to show all files currently protected.
.br

.B key
.I key
sets the file key to
.I key.
This option is only valid if
.I the principal
is a directory.
.br

.B principal
.I object
tells
.I protect(1)
the name of the object (which is to be homeostatically protected).
.br

.B status
display (PSRP) process status.
.br

.SH LIBRARIES
.I protect(1)
uses the PUPS libraries, see
.I pups(3)
.br

.SH BUGS
.I setsid(2)
is used to make it easy for the
.B PUPS
exit routine to clobber the child. This means
.I any
process can send a
.I killpg(2) 
to the parents process group (and clobber the child as well as the parent). This is a safety
feature which could be removed (should the need arise).
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
none.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
psrp(1), utilib(3)

