.TH RESTART 1 "15th December 2017" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
RESTART \- Restart a command/shell-script previously checkpointed via
.I criu(1) 
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B restart 
.B [-usage | -help]
.B [-detach] [-d signal delay] !-c <criu checkpoint directory>!
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I restart(1)
autimatically restores the state of a command or shell-script using
.I criu(1)
checkpointing. The checkpoint is generated either directly using
.I criu(1)
or via the
.I ssave(1)
wrapper script.
.br


.SH OPTIONS

.B -usage | -help
display help and copyright information for the
.I lol(1)
filter.
.br

.B -detach
tells
.I restart(1)
to restart the checkpoint in the backgroud. Otherwise, the checkpoint is
restarted in the foreground (e.g. with /dev/tty as its controlling terminal).
.br

.B -d
.I signal delay
tells
.I restart(1)
how long to wait before delivering a SIGRESTART signal to the process group
restarted by
.I criu(1).
The default action for this signal is for members of the restored process
group to ignore it, but they can elect to install a handler which performs
vital restart actions (e.g. restarting timers, reconnecting sockets etc).
.br

.B -c
.I criu checkpoint pathname 
tells
.I restart(1)
the name of the
.I criu checkpoint pathname 
for the checkpoint to be restarted. This option is mandatory.
.br

.SH SIGNALS
.B SIGRESTART
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH BUGS
.I None

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
criu(1), ssave(1)
.br
