.TH SOFTDOG 1 "25th October 2023" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
SOFTDOG \- PUPS process/process-group software watchdog 

.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B softdog
[
.B -usage
|
.B -help
] | [
-verbose
]!
.B -monitorpgrp
.I process group identifier
! | !
.B -monitor
.I process identifier
![
.B -timeout
.I watchdog timeout seconds
]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I softdog(1)
is a software watchdog which will terminate the specified process group or process unless it
receives a
.I SIGCONT
signal before it times out. It is used to terminate a malfunctioning process by sending it a
.I SIGKILL
signal. Typically
.B PUPS/P3
servers which are locked up in a tight loop and/or uncommunicative. If a process group is specified
.I softdog(1)
will kill all processes in the process group by sending them a
.I SIGKILL
signal if it does not a
.I SIGCONT
signal before it times out.
If the monitored process groupd or process is killed
.I softdog(1)
then exits.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.B -verbose
tells
.I softdog(1)
to log error and status information to standard error.
.br

.B -monitorprgp
.I process group identifier
tells
.I sofdog(1)
to send a
.I SIGKILL
signal to the specified process group when it times out. This option and
.B -monitorpid
are mutually exclusive.
.br

.B -monitorpid
.I process identifier
tells
.I sofdog(1)
to send a
.I SIGKILL
signal to the specified process when it times out. This option and
.B -monitorpgrp
are mutually exclusive.

.B -timeout
.I watchdog timeout in seconds 
specifies the  watchdog timeout in seconds. If
.I softdog does not receive a
.I SIGCONT
signal, a
.I SIGKILL
signal is sent to the monitored process group or process.
.br

.SH SIGNALS
.br
.B SIGINT
.B SIHUP
.B SIGQUIT
.B SIGTERM
tells
.I softdog(1)
to terminate gracefully.
.br

.B SIGCONT
tells
.I softdog(1)
to reset the watchdog timeout period.
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
maggot(1), kepher(1), lyosome(1)
.br

