.TH SSAVE 1 "15th December 2017" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
SSAVE \- save state of command via
.I criu(1)
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssave 
.B [-usage | -help]
.B [-t <poll time] [-cd <crui directory>] !-p <payload command/shell-script!
>& <log file>
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ssave(1)
autimatically saves the state of a command or shell-script using
.I criu(1)
checkpointing. The state of the process is saved every
.I poll time
seconds. If the payload command completes successfully the checkpoint
(stored in /tmp) is discarded, otherwise the command can be restarted
via
.I restart(1)
using the last checkpoint saved.
.br


.SH OPTIONS

.B -usage | -help
display help and copyright information for the
.I lol(1)
filter.
.br

.B -t
.I poll_time
specify time between
.I criu(1)
checkpoints in seconds. This value of this argument must be > 0
.br

.B -p
.I payload command/shell-script
tells
.I ssave(1)
the name of the
.I payload command
or
.I shell-script
whose state is to be saved. This argument is mandatory.
.br

.B -cd
.I criu directory
tells
.I ssave(1)
the name of the directory in which (Criu) checkpoints will be saved. This defaults
to
.I /tmp.
Typically, a non-default criu directory can be used to hold other items, for example
the bodies of files which need to be
.B wrapped
and migrated with a checkpoint moving to a new host.
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH FILES
the
.I criu(1)
checkpoint is stored in
.I /tmp/criu.<payload pid>.ssave.

.SH BUGS
.I None

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
criu(1), restart(1)
.br
