.TH TCELL 1 "16th April 2015" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"
.SH NAME
tcell \ licensing module (for arbitrary non PUPS codes) 
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tcell 
[
.B -pipe
.I command pipeline
] | [
.B -tee_file <tee_file_name>
][
.B -nice
.I cardinal
][
.B -argf
.I argument_file
][
.B -help
][
.B -usage
][
.B -growth_protection
.I retries
][
.B -slots
][
.B -slotinfo
]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tcell(1) 
is an application which runs the PUPS
.I securicor
security module on behalf of its parent process. If licensing conditions
are not met
.I tcell(1)
terminates the parent process. If licensing conditions are met, control is
passed back to the parent process.
.br

.SH OPTIONS
 
.B -help
invokes the on-line context help system. This
"man" page is displayed. The process then exits.
.br

.B -growth_protection
.I retrys
causes the system to retry an
.I sbrk(2)
call up to
.I retrys
times. This option permits the program to wait until the core that it requires
is available rather than simply exiting if
.I sbrk(2)
fails.
.br

.B -argf
.I argument_file
tells the filter to take its command line arguments from the specified
.I argument_file.
The data format of the argument file is:
.br

#  ... optional comment line ...
.B -argflag           [1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

# ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [2]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br
 
.B -nice
.I cardinal
determimes the
.I niceness
at which the filter is scheduled. In keeping with all UNIX user processes, nice
must be a cardinal between 0 and 20. The default niceness for
.I xtee(1)
is 4.
.br

.B -usage
displays program shortform usage.
.br

.B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.B -slots
displays the
.I pups(3)
libraries used in application in short form.
.br

.B -slotinfo
displays the
.I pups(3)
libraries used in application in long form giving version, source language,
programmer and copyright.

.SH LIBRARIES
.I xtee(1)
makes use of PUPS libraries [Portable UNIX Programming System], see
.I pups(3)
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
none.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd, Gosforth.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br
