.TH VECTOR 1 "14th January 2004" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"

.SH NAME
VECTOR \- vector PSRP request to remote server 
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vector 
[
.B -nice
.I cardinal
][
.B -argf
.I argument_file
][
.B -help
][
.B -usage
][
.B -growth_protection
.I retries
][
.B -slots
][
.B -slotinfo
][
.B -verbose
]!
.B -on
.I hostname
!!
.B -server
.I server 
!
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I vector(1)
vectors commands to remote PSRP
.I server.
Typically it is started by a PSRP server when it migrates in order to
maintain conenctivity with local clients.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.B -help
invokes the on-line context help system. This
"man" page is displayed. The process then exits.
.br

.B -growth_protection
.I retrys
causes the system to retry an
.I sbrk(2)
call up to
.I retrys
times. This option permits the program to wait until the core that it requires
is available rather than simply exiting if
.I sbrk(2)
fails.
.br

.B -argf
.I argument_file
tells the filter to take its command line arguments from the specified
.I argument_file.
The data format of the argument file is:
.br

#  ... optional comment line ...
.B -argflag           [1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

# ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [2]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

.B -nice
.I cardinal
determimes the
.I niceness
at which the filter is scheduled. In keeping with all UNIX user processes, nice
must be a cardinal between 0 and 20. The default niceness for
.I xtee(1)
is 4.
.br

.B -usage
displays program shortform usage.
.br

B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.B -slots
displays the
.I pups(3)
libraries used in application in short form.
.br

.B -slotinfo
displays the
.I pups(3)
libraries used in application in long form giving version, source language,
programmer and copyright.


.B -verbose
turns on logging (output to standard error).
.br

.B -on
.I hostname
tells
.I vector(1)
the host running the target PSRP server.
.br

.B -cmd
.I command
command name of target PSRP server (on remote host).
.br

.SH LIBRARIES
.I vector(1)
makes use of PUPS libraries [Portable UNIX Programming System], see
.I pups(3)
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br


.SH SEE ALSO
pips(3)
