.TH XCAT 1 "16th April 2015" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"
.SH NAME
.br

xcat \ the dynamic pipeline insertion point marker 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcat 
[
.B -nice
.I cardinal
][
.B -argf
.I argument_file
][
.B -growth_protection
][
.B -help
][
.B -usage
][
.B -version
][
.B -slots
][
.B -slotinfo
]
!< <stdin>!
[1> <stdout>]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xcat 
provides a mechanism for inserting processes (and sub-pipelines) into a running
process pipeline dynamically. Typically, a process wishing to insert itself
into a running pipeline would open a PSRP channel to
.I xcat(1)
and then replac
.I xcat(1)
in the pipeline via the PSRP
.B overlay
(builtin) command. This facility allows the user to dynamically insert monitoring
filters (which may require transient facilities like an X display) into a running
pipeline.
.br
 
.SH OPTIONS
 
.B -help
invokes the on-line context help system for the file system watcher. This
"man" page is displayed. The process then exits.
.br

.B -usage
displays shortform usage string.
.br

.B -growth_protection
.I <retrys>
causes the system to retry an
.I sbrk(3)
call up to
.I retrys
times. This option permits the program to wait until the core that it requires
is available rather than simply exiting if
.I sbrk(3)
fails.
.br

.B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.B -slots
displays short form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -slotinfo
displays long form
.I pups(3)
library dependencies.
.br

.B -argf
.I argument_file
tells the filter to take its command line arguments from the specified
.I argument_file.
The data format of the argument file is:
.br

#  ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

# ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [2]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br
 
.B -nice
.I cardinal
determimes the
.I niceness
at which the filter is scheduled. In keeping with all UNIX user processes, nice
must be a cardinal between 0 and 20. The default niceness for
.I xcat(1)
is 4.
.br

.B -usage
displays program shortform usage.
.br

.B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.SH PSRP OPTIONS

.B dataflow
.I off | stdout | psrp | ptap
switches the output of
.I xcat(1)
to the specified stream. If
.B ptap
is specified output is sent to both
.B standard output
and
.B psrp
streams.
.b r

.SH LIBRARIES
.I xcat(1)
uses the PUPS libraries, see
.I pups(3)
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
none.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd, Gosforth.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br
