.TH XTEE 1 "16th April 2015" "PUPSP3 commands" "PUPSP3 commands"
.SH NAME
xtee \ extended tee command
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xtee
[
.B -pipe
.I command pipeline
] | [
.B -tee_file <tee_file_name>
][
.B -nice
.I cardinal
][
.B -argf
.I argument_file
][
.B -help
][
.B -usage
][
.B -verbose
][
.B -growth_protection
.I retries
][
.B -slots
][
.B -slotinfo
][
.B -compress
][
.B -pipe
][
.B - fifo
][
.B -append
][
.B -tee_file
.I name
]
!< <stdin>!
[1> <stdout>]
[2> <log file>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xtee
is a filter which is based on the standard UNIX filter
.I tee(1).
.I xtee(1) takes data from
.I stdin
and writes it to
.I stdout(1).
In addition, the data is also written to the file or command pipeline specified by the
.I xtee(1)
command tail options.
.br

.SH OPTIONS
 
.B -help
invokes the on-line context help system. This
"man" page is displayed. The process then exits.
.br

.B -growth_protection
.I retrys
causes the system to retry an
.I sbrk(2)
call up to
.I retrys
times. This option permits the program to wait until the core that it requires
is available rather than simply exiting if
.I sbrk(2)
fails.
.br

.B -argf
.I argument_file
tells the filter to take its command line arguments from the specified
.I argument_file.
The data format of the argument file is:
.br

#  ... optional comment line ...
.B -argflag           [1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br

# ... optional comment line ...
.br
.B -argflag           [2]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,1]
.br
.I argument_parameter [1,2]
.br

.I argument_parameter [1,n]
.br
 
.B -nice
.I cardinal
determimes the
.I niceness
at which the filter is scheduled. In keeping with all UNIX user processes, nice
must be a cardinal between 0 and 20. The default niceness for
.I xtee(1)
is 4.
.br

.B -usage
displays program shortform usage.
.br

.B -version
displays program version number.
.br

.B -slots
displays the
.I pups(3)
libraries used in application in short form.
.br

.B -verbose
turns on error logging (to standard error).
.br

.B -slotinfo
displays the
.I pups(3)
libraries used in application in long form giving version, source language,
programmer and copyright.

.B -pipe
.I command pipeline
specifies a command pipeline to which
.I stdin
is to be copied.
.br

.B -tee_file
.I tee_file_name
specifies the name of the tee file to which data is to be diverted.
This option is only valid if
.B -pipe
has not been specified.
.br

.B -fifo
specifies that the tee file
.I te_file_name
will be created as a System V FIFO [named pipe] rather than a regular file.
This option is only valid if
.B -pipe
has not been specified.
.br

.B -compress
uses the
.I pipestream
functions [see
.I pups(3)
] to compress the output to the tee file. If this option is selected, the
tee file must be a regular file.
This option is only valid if
.B -pipe
has not been specified.
.br

.B -append
tells
.I xtee(1)
to append (rahter than overwrite)
.I tee_file_name.
This option is only valid if
.I tee_file_name
is a
.B regular file
(e.g. not a
.B pipe stream
or a
.B FIFO
.br

.SH LIBRARIES
.I xtee(1)
makes use of PUPS libraries [Portable UNIX Programming System], see
.I pups(3)
.br

.SH EXIT STATUS

255: error
.br
1:
.B -usage
or
.B -help
.br
0: no error
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES
none.
.br

.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Tumbling Dice Ltd, Gosforth.
.br

.SH PROGRAMMER
M.A. O'Neill.
.br
